# COMP1721 Coursework 2

## Using Gradle

Everything you need to do in this assignment, aside from editing code, is
handled by the Gradle build system.  You can run Gradle from the command
line or use it from within the IntelliJ IDE if you prefer.  If using
IntelliJ, please use a recent version of the IDE on your own PC and run
the *Import Project* wizard, specifying the project type as 'Gradle'.

**You do not need to install Gradle yourself**, as we've included a
'Gradle wrapper' that will download a compatible version of the tool, along
with various library dependencies, if required.  **This will be very slow
the first time that it runs!**

On Linux and macOS, run the wrapper with `./gradlew`.  On Windows, it should
be possible to run it with `gradlew`.  The commands below assume the use
of Linux or macOS.

## Class Testing

You must implement classes `Deck` and `PokerHand` in the files `Deck.java`
and `PokerHand.java` that have already been provided for you in
`src/main/java/comp1721/cwk2`.  As with Coursework 1, you need to start
with stub implementations of these classes in order to compile and run
the tests.

To run all the unit tests, recompiling code where necessary, do

    ./gradlew test

To run only the tests for the basic solution, do

    ./gradlew test --tests Basic

Substitute `Full` for `Basic` in the above command to run only the tests
for the full solution.

Tests and their status (PASSED or FAILED) are listed in the terminal.
A **test report** is also generated in HTML, containing detailed information
about the tests and any failures that have occurred.  You can access this
by pointing your browser at `build/reports/tests/test/index.html`.  We
suggest you keep this page open in a browser tab, refreshing it as
necessary, so that you always have full information available on test
results.

Note that Gradle won't normally rerun tests if they have all passed, unless
you've changed something in your code.  You can force it to recompile
everything and rerun the tests using

    ./gradlew test --rerun-tasks

## Style Checking

To check coding style for the classes, do

    ./gradlew style

If there are any style violations, you'll see a count reported in the
terminal window.  A full report on the violations can be viewed by pointing
your browser at `build/reports/checkstyle/main.html`.  **Treat this
report as a rough guide only**.  Warnings will not necessarily lead to the
deduction of style marks.  Also, note that style checking is not exhaustive
and we may still penalise you on style grounds even if no violations are
reported here.

As with unit tests, Gradle normally won't rerun the style check unless you
change something in your code.

You can check coding style *and* run tests in one go with

    ./gradlew check

## Generating Documentation

To generate HTML documentation from doc comments in the core classes, do

    ./gradlew javadoc

Then view the documentation by pointing a web browser at
`build/docs/javadoc/index.html`.

## The `PokerStats` Application

This is provided for you, as an additional way of checking that your
classes are implemented correctly.  You can run the application like this:

    ./gradlew run

The log file created by this program can be found in the `build` directory.

## Cleaning Up

To remove all files generated by the build process, use

    ./gradlew clean

## Submitting

To generate a Zip archive containing all of the code that needs to be
submitted, do

    ./gradlew submission

